[[Protocols]]
The Internet Protocol (IP) is the method for sending data from one device to another across the internet. Every device has an IP address that uniquely identifies it and enables it to communicate with and exchange data with other devices connected to the internet.  Today, it’s considered the standard for fast and secure communication directly between mobile devices.

IP is responsible for defining how applications and devices exchange packets of data with each other. It is the principal communications protocol responsible for the formats and rules for exchanging data and messages between computers on a single network or several internet-connected networks. It does this through the Internet Protocol Suite (TCP/IP), a group of communications protocols that are split into four abstraction layers.

IP is the main protocol within the internet layer of the TCP/IP. Its main purpose is to deliver data packets between the source application or device and the destination using methods and structures that place tags, such as address information, within data packets.

The four layers of the TCP/IP model are as follows:

1. **Datalink layer**: The datalink layer defines how data should be sent, handles the physical act of sending and receiving data, and is responsible for transmitting data between applications or devices on a network. This includes defining how data should be signaled by hardware and other transmission devices on a network, such as a computer’s device driver, an [Ethernet](https://www.fortinet.com/resources/cyberglossary/what-is-ethernet-switching) cable, a network interface card (NIC), or a [wireless network](https://www.fortinet.com/resources/cyberglossary/wireless-network). It is also referred to as the link layer, network access layer, network interface layer, or physical layer and is the combination of the physical and data link layers of the [Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model](https://www.fortinet.com/resources/cyberglossary/osi-model), which standardizes communications functions on computing and telecommunications systems.
2. **Internet layer**: The internet layer is responsible for sending packets from a network and controlling their movement across a network to ensure they reach their destination. It provides the functions and procedures for transferring data sequences between applications and devices across networks.
3. **Transport layer**: The transport layer is responsible for providing a solid and reliable data connection between the original application or device and its intended destination. This is the level where data is divided into packets and numbered to create a sequence. The transport layer then determines how much data must be sent, where it should be sent to, and at what rate. It ensures that data packets are sent without errors and in sequence and obtains the acknowledgment that the destination device has received the data packets.
4. **Application layer**: The application layer refers to programs that need TCP/IP to help them communicate with each other. This is the level that users typically interact with, such as email systems and messaging platforms. It combines the session, presentation, and application layers of the OSI model.