[[Protocols]]
**Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)** is a communications standard that enables application programs and computing devices to exchange messages over a network. It is designed to send [packets](https://www.fortinet.com/resources/cyberglossary/what-is-packet-loss) across the internet and ensure the successful delivery of data and messages over networks.

TCP is one of the basic standards that define the rules of the internet and is included within the standards defined by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It is one of the most commonly used protocols within digital network communications and ensures end-to-end data delivery.

TCP organizes data so that it can be transmitted between a server and a client. It guarantees the integrity of the data being communicated over a network. Before it transmits data, TCP establishes a connection between a source and its destination, which it ensures remains live until communication begins. It then breaks large amounts of data into smaller packets, while ensuring data integrity is in place throughout the process.

The four layers of the TCP/IP model are as follows:

1. **Datalink layer**: The datalink layer defines how data should be sent, handles the physical act of sending and receiving data, and is responsible for transmitting data between applications or devices on a network. This includes defining how data should be signaled by hardware and other transmission devices on a network, such as a computer’s device driver, an [Ethernet](https://www.fortinet.com/resources/cyberglossary/what-is-ethernet-switching) cable, a network interface card (NIC), or a [wireless network](https://www.fortinet.com/resources/cyberglossary/wireless-network). It is also referred to as the link layer, network access layer, network interface layer, or physical layer and is the combination of the physical and data link layers of the [Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model](https://www.fortinet.com/resources/cyberglossary/osi-model), which standardizes communications functions on computing and telecommunications systems.
2. **Internet layer**: The internet layer is responsible for sending packets from a network and controlling their movement across a network to ensure they reach their destination. It provides the functions and procedures for transferring data sequences between applications and devices across networks.
3. **Transport layer**: The transport layer is responsible for providing a solid and reliable data connection between the original application or device and its intended destination. This is the level where data is divided into packets and numbered to create a sequence. The transport layer then determines how much data must be sent, where it should be sent to, and at what rate. It ensures that data packets are sent without errors and in sequence and obtains the acknowledgment that the destination device has received the data packets.
4. **Application layer**: The application layer refers to programs that need TCP/IP to help them communicate with each other. This is the level that users typically interact with, such as email systems and messaging platforms. It combines the session, presentation, and application layers of the OSI model.